README.md, before:

OpenShift 3 Alpha
=================

This is the source repository for the next version of OpenShift - the third architectural revision.  It is based around [Docker](https://www.docker.io) containers and images and the [Kubernetes](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes) container management solution.  OpenShift adds developer  centric and organization centric workflows on top of Kubernetes, and much of the core functionality of OpenShift is designed as plugins to the core Kubernetes concepts.

Please see the [OpenShift 3 Project Enhancement Proposal (PEP)](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-pep/blob/master/openshift-pep-013-openshift-3.md) for a deeper discussion of the features you see here.

NOTE: This is a very early prototype, and as such is designed for rapid iteration around core concepts.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/openshift/origin?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/openshift/origin)
[![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/openshift/origin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/openshift/origin)

Getting Started
---------------
First, **get up and running with the** [**Contributing Guide**](CONTRIBUTING.adoc) (CONTRIBUTING.adoc). Note that Docker is not optional if you want to try out these example apps.

From there, you can:

1.  Run a build

        $ hack/build-go.sh

2.  Start an OpenShift all-in-one server (includes everything you need to try OpenShift)

        $ _output/go/bin/openshift start

3.  In another terminal window, switch to the directory and start an app:

        $ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/openshift/origin
        $ _output/go/bin/openshift kube create pods -c examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json

Once that's done, open a browser on your machine and open [http://localhost:6061](http://localhost:6061); you should see a 'Welcome to OpenShift' message.

### How Does This Work?

This example is simply running the ['openshift/hello-openshift' Docker image](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json#L11) which is [built on Docker Hub](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/openshift/hello-openshift/).

* At the Docker level, that image [binds to port 8080](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello_openshift.go#L16) within a container and [prints out a simple 'Hello OpenShift' message on access](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello_openshift.go#L9).
* At the Kubernetes level, we [map that bound port in the container](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json#L13) [to port 6061 on the host](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json#L14) so that we can access it via the host browser.

### Other Examples
For an example app that includes a databse and an admin front-end, try the [multiple container pod](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/test-pod-multi.json). 


Getting Started With Vagrant
----------------------------

To facilitate rapid development we've put together a Vagrantfile you can use to stand up a 
development environment.  You'll need Vagrant installed - get it 
[here](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads).

1.  Clone the project and change into the directory:

        $ git clone git://github.com/openshift/origin
        $ cd origin

2.  Bring up the VM:

        $ vagrant up

3.  SSH in:

        $ vagrant ssh
        $ cd /vagrant

4.  Run a build:

        $ hack/build-go.sh

5.  Start an OpenShift all-in-one server (includes everything you need to try OpenShift)

        $ output/go/bin/openshift start

You'll then be able to use the steps above to create pods, replication controllers, etc.

Design Documents
----------------

OpenShift designs:

* [OpenShift 3 PEP](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-pep/blob/master/openshift-pep-013-openshift-3.md)
* [Orchestration Overview](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/docs/orchestration.md)

Kubernetes designs are in [the Kubernetes docs dir](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes/blob/master/docs/)

API
---

The OpenShift APIs are exposed at `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/*`.

* coming soon

The Kubernetes APIs are exposed at `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/*`:

* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/pods`
* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/services`
* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/replicationControllers`
* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/operations`

Several experimental API objects are being prototyped, and should be available soon at:

* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/images`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/imagesByRepository`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/imageRepositories`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/builds`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/buildConfigs`

A draft of the proposed API is available at https://rawgit.com/openshift/origin/master/api/oov3.html and is developed under the [api](./api) directory.  Expect significant changes.


FAQ
---

1. How does OpenShift relate to Kubernetes?

    OpenShift embeds Kubernetes and adds additional functionality to offer a simple, powerful, and easy-to-approach developer and operator experience for building applications in containers.  Kubernetes today is focused around composing containerized applications - OpenShift adds building images, managing them, and integrating them into deployment flows.  Our goal is to do most of that work upstream, with integration and final packaging occuring in OpenShift.  As we iterate through the next few months, you'll see this repository focus more on integration and plugins, with more and more features becoming part of Kubernetes.

    OpenShift tracks the Kubernetes upstream at [github.com/openshift/kubernetes](https://github.com/openshift/kubernetes).  See the wiki in that project for more on how we manage the process of integrating prototyped features.

2. What about [geard](https://github.com/openshift/geard)?

    Geard started as a prototype vehicle for the next generation of the OpenShift node - as an orchestration endpoint, to offer integration with systemd, and to prototype network abstraction, routing, SSH access to containers, and Git hosting.  Its intended goal is to provide a simple way of reliably managing containers at scale, and to offer administrators tools for easily composing those applications (gear deploy).

    With the introduction of Kubernetes, the Kubelet, and the pull model it leverages from etcd, we believe we can implement the pull-orchestration model described in [orchestrating geard](https://github.com/openshift/geard/blob/master/docs/orchestrating_geard.md), especially now that we have a path to properly [limit host compromises from affecting the cluster](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes/pull/860).  The pull-model has many advantages for end clients, not least of which that they are guaranteed to eventually converge to the correct state of the server.  We expect that the use cases the geard endpoint offered will be merged into the Kubelet for consumption by admins.

    systemd and Docker integration offers efficient and clean process management and secure logging aggregation with the system.  We plan on introducing those capabilities into Kubernetes over time, especially as we work with the Docker upstream to limit the impact of the Docker daemon's parent child process relationship with containers, where death of the Docker daemon terminates the containers under it

    Network links and their ability to simplify how software connects to other containers is planned for Docker links v2 and is a capability we believe will be important in Kubernetes as well ([see issue 494 for more details](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes/issues/494)).

    The geard deployment descriptor describes containers and their relationships and will be mapped to deployment on top of Kubernetes.  The geard commandline itself will likely be merged directly into the `openshift` command for all-in-one management of a cluster.


Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome - a more formal process is coming soon.  In the meantime, open issues as necessary, ask questions on the OpenShift IRC channel (#openshift-dev on freenode), or get involved in the [Kubernetes project](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes).

See [HACKING.md](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/HACKING.md) for more details on developing on OpenShift.

If you want to run the test suite, make sure you have your environment from above set up, and from the origin directory run:

```
# run the unit tests
$ hack/test-go.sh

# run a simple server integration test
$ hack/test-cmd.sh

# run the integration server test suite
$ hack/test-integration.sh
```

You'll need [etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd) installed and on your path for the last step to run.  To install etcd you should be able to run:

```
$ go get github.com/coreos/etcd
```


License
-------

OpenShift is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/).

Commit message:

Script building the docker images

README.md, after:

OpenShift 3 Alpha
=================

This is the source repository for the next version of OpenShift - the third architectural revision.  It is based around [Docker](https://www.docker.io) containers and images and the [Kubernetes](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes) container management solution.  OpenShift adds developer  centric and organization centric workflows on top of Kubernetes, and much of the core functionality of OpenShift is designed as plugins to the core Kubernetes concepts.

Please see the [OpenShift 3 Project Enhancement Proposal (PEP)](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-pep/blob/master/openshift-pep-013-openshift-3.md) for a deeper discussion of the features you see here.

NOTE: This is a very early prototype, and as such is designed for rapid iteration around core concepts.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/openshift/origin?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/openshift/origin)
[![Travis](https://travis-ci.org/openshift/origin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/openshift/origin)

Getting Started
---------------
First, **get up and running with the** [**Contributing Guide**](CONTRIBUTING.adoc) (CONTRIBUTING.adoc). Note that Docker is not optional if you want to try out these example apps.

From there, you can:

1.  Run a build

        $ hack/build-go.sh

2.  Start an OpenShift all-in-one server (includes everything you need to try OpenShift)

        $ _output/go/bin/openshift start

3.  In another terminal window, switch to the directory and start an app:

        $ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/openshift/origin
        $ _output/go/bin/openshift kube create pods -c examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json

Once that's done, open a browser on your machine and open [http://localhost:6061](http://localhost:6061); you should see a 'Welcome to OpenShift' message.

### How Does This Work?

This example is simply running the ['openshift/hello-openshift' Docker image](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json#L11) which is [built on Docker Hub](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/openshift/hello-openshift/).

* At the Docker level, that image [binds to port 8080](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello_openshift.go#L16) within a container and [prints out a simple 'Hello OpenShift' message on access](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello_openshift.go#L9).
* At the Kubernetes level, we [map that bound port in the container](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json#L13) [to port 6061 on the host](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/hello-openshift/hello-pod.json#L14) so that we can access it via the host browser.

### Other Examples
For an example app that includes a databse and an admin front-end, try the [multiple container pod](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/examples/test-pod-multi.json). 


Getting Started With Vagrant
----------------------------

To facilitate rapid development we've put together a Vagrantfile you can use to stand up a 
development environment.  You'll need Vagrant installed - get it 
[here](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads).

1.  Clone the project and change into the directory:

        $ git clone git://github.com/openshift/origin
        $ cd origin

2.  Bring up the VM:

        $ vagrant up

3.  SSH in:

        $ vagrant ssh
        $ cd /vagrant

4.  Run a build:

        $ hack/build-go.sh

5.  Start an OpenShift all-in-one server (includes everything you need to try OpenShift)

        $ output/go/bin/openshift start

You'll then be able to use the steps above to create pods, replication controllers, etc.

Design Documents
----------------

OpenShift designs:

* [OpenShift 3 PEP](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-pep/blob/master/openshift-pep-013-openshift-3.md)
* [Orchestration Overview](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/docs/orchestration.md)

Kubernetes designs are in [the Kubernetes docs dir](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes/blob/master/docs/)

API
---

The OpenShift APIs are exposed at `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/*`.

* coming soon

The Kubernetes APIs are exposed at `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/*`:

* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/pods`
* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/services`
* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/replicationControllers`
* `http://localhost:8080/api/v1beta1/operations`

Several experimental API objects are being prototyped, and should be available soon at:

* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/images`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/imagesByRepository`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/imageRepositories`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/builds`
* `http://localhost:8080/osapi/v1beta1/buildConfigs`

A draft of the proposed API is available at https://rawgit.com/openshift/origin/master/api/oov3.html and is developed under the [api](./api) directory.  Expect significant changes.


FAQ
---

1. How does OpenShift relate to Kubernetes?

    OpenShift embeds Kubernetes and adds additional functionality to offer a simple, powerful, and easy-to-approach developer and operator experience for building applications in containers.  Kubernetes today is focused around composing containerized applications - OpenShift adds building images, managing them, and integrating them into deployment flows.  Our goal is to do most of that work upstream, with integration and final packaging occuring in OpenShift.  As we iterate through the next few months, you'll see this repository focus more on integration and plugins, with more and more features becoming part of Kubernetes.

    OpenShift tracks the Kubernetes upstream at [github.com/openshift/kubernetes](https://github.com/openshift/kubernetes).  See the wiki in that project for more on how we manage the process of integrating prototyped features.

2. What about [geard](https://github.com/openshift/geard)?

    Geard started as a prototype vehicle for the next generation of the OpenShift node - as an orchestration endpoint, to offer integration with systemd, and to prototype network abstraction, routing, SSH access to containers, and Git hosting.  Its intended goal is to provide a simple way of reliably managing containers at scale, and to offer administrators tools for easily composing those applications (gear deploy).

    With the introduction of Kubernetes, the Kubelet, and the pull model it leverages from etcd, we believe we can implement the pull-orchestration model described in [orchestrating geard](https://github.com/openshift/geard/blob/master/docs/orchestrating_geard.md), especially now that we have a path to properly [limit host compromises from affecting the cluster](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes/pull/860).  The pull-model has many advantages for end clients, not least of which that they are guaranteed to eventually converge to the correct state of the server.  We expect that the use cases the geard endpoint offered will be merged into the Kubelet for consumption by admins.

    systemd and Docker integration offers efficient and clean process management and secure logging aggregation with the system.  We plan on introducing those capabilities into Kubernetes over time, especially as we work with the Docker upstream to limit the impact of the Docker daemon's parent child process relationship with containers, where death of the Docker daemon terminates the containers under it

    Network links and their ability to simplify how software connects to other containers is planned for Docker links v2 and is a capability we believe will be important in Kubernetes as well ([see issue 494 for more details](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes/issues/494)).

    The geard deployment descriptor describes containers and their relationships and will be mapped to deployment on top of Kubernetes.  The geard commandline itself will likely be merged directly into the `openshift` command for all-in-one management of a cluster.


Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome - a more formal process is coming soon.  In the meantime, open issues as necessary, ask questions on the OpenShift IRC channel (#openshift-dev on freenode), or get involved in the [Kubernetes project](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes).

See [HACKING.md](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/HACKING.md) for more details on developing on OpenShift.

If you want to run the test suite, make sure you have your environment from above set up, and from the origin directory run:

```
# run the unit tests
$ hack/test-go.sh

# run a simple server integration test
$ hack/test-cmd.sh

# run the integration server test suite
$ hack/test-integration.sh
```

You'll need [etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd) installed and on your path for the last step to run.  To install etcd you should be able to run:

```
$ go get github.com/coreos/etcd
```

Some of the components of OpenShift run as Docker images, including the builders and deployment tools in `images/builder/docker/*` and 'images/deploy/*`.  To build them locally run

```
$ hack/build-images.sh
```


License
-------

OpenShift is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/).
